Update documentation for floating-point precision and determinant calculations (#27602)
numpy/numpy: doc/source/user/basics.types.rst

    >>> np.power(100, 100, dtype=np.float64)
    1e+200

Floating point precision
========================

Many functions in NumPy, especially those in `numpy.linalg`, involve floating-point
arithmetic, which can introduce small inaccuracies due to the way computers 
represent decimal numbers. For instance, when performing basic arithmetic operations 
involving floating-point numbers:

    >>> 0.3 - 0.2 - 0.1  # This does not equal 0 due to floating-point precision
    -2.7755575615628914e-17

To handle such cases, it's advisable to use functions like `np.isclose` to compare 
values, rather than checking for exact equality:

>     >>> np.isclose(0.3 - 0.2 - 0.1, 0, rtol=1e-05)  # Check for closeness to 0

Reviewer: Nitpick for the next time someone looks at this: `rtol` won't really do anything here because one of the comparands is 0. `atol` would be the value that you would want to use to specify your tolerance.

Author: Actually, it is the default value used by NumPy.

Reviewer: From the docs:

"""
For finite values, isclose uses the following equation to test whether
two floating point values are equivalent.

 absolute(`a` - `b`) <= (`atol` + `rtol` * absolute(`b`))
"""

Because `b==0`, setting the value of `rtol` won't change anything. In order to demonstrate controlling the tolerance in this case, you must use `atol` in this example and talk about absolute tolerances, not relative tolerances.

Author: Ok, I will change it.

    >>> np.power(100, 100, dtype=np.float64)
    1e+200

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: Rather than putting this in a "note" under "overflow errors", I think it should be main text under a new section called "floating point precision".

Author: Thank you for the feedback!

I’ve moved the floating-point precision details into a new section titled "Floating point precision" as suggested.

Please let me know if further changes are needed!

    >>> np.power(100, 100, dtype=np.float64)
    1e+200

Floating point precision
========================

Many functions in NumPy, especially those in `numpy.linalg`, involve floating-point
arithmetic, which can introduce small inaccuracies due to the way computers 
represent decimal numbers. For instance, when computing the determinant of the 
following matrix:

>     >>> import numpy as np

Reviewer 2: You could maybe drive this home even more with a simpler example. My favorite is
```python
>>> 0.3 - 0.2 - 0.1
-2.7755575615628914e-17
```
Though this uses Python float arithmetic rather than NumPy.

    >>> a = np.array([[5, 5, 6], [7, 7, 5], [4, 4, 8]])
    >>> print(np.linalg.det(a)) # Result is close to 0 due to floating-point precision
    -3.1974423109204565e-14
    

One may receive a result like ``-3.1974423109204565e-14`` instead of ``0``. This is

> a known behavior of floating-point operations in numerical libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a behavior common to all frameworks that use floating point arithmetic.
```

To handle such cases, it's advisable to set a threshold for comparison when checking
if a determinant is effectively zero. For example:

    >>> np.isclose(np.linalg.det(a), 0)  # Check for closeness to 0

>     True

Reviewer 3: This example doesn't actually set a threshold though! I think it might be better to recommend using `np.linalg.cond` instead?

Reviewer 2: I don't think diving into the details of matrix condition numbers is appropriate for the context here. This is not a discussion of linear algebra concepts, this is a brief section alerting new users that floating point arithmetic is not exact.

Reviewer 2: My suggestion would be to remove all mentions of the determinant, and show the example I mentioned above, ie.. `0.3 - 0.2 - 0.1 != 0`.

Reviewer 3: > I don't think diving into the details of matrix condition numbers is appropriate for the context here.

Good point, I thought I was looking at the docstring for `np.linalg.det`. Perhaps we should link to both here and `cond` from `det` though, if we don't already?

Author: Yeah, that's what I thought.
So I have updated the example to reflect a more general case of floating-point arithmetic as per your feedback. I removed the determinant-related example and replaced it with the simpler arithmetic case (0.3 - 0.2 - 0.1). Please let me know if further adjustments are needed!

Reviewer: While that example is important, it demonstrates just one issue with floating point arithmetic (not exactly representing the base-10 decimals used in the literals).

The originating issue that spawned this PR has a very different floating point concern, though, that remains unanswered by the current text. The root cause is that the underlying implementation of `det()` uses a particular floating point algorithm, one which will give an inexact floating point result even if the inputs were exactly representable in floating point arithmetic, which they were in the originating bug report (small integers). If `det()` had been implemented using the high-school pen-and-paper algorithm for determinants, even in floating point arithmetic, it would have given the exact expected answer.

Author: @rkern would you suggest expanding this section to discuss algorithm-specific floating-point issues, or would it be more appropriate to address that in a different section of the documentation?

Reviewer: It's not really algorithm-specific concerning just `det()`, which is why I recommended a general note here. It's a general issue for lots of numpy routines. One needs to know that due to several different properties of floating point representations and floating point arithmetic and implementation choices, simple contrived test cases with known exact answers won't always show those exact answers, and this is not a bug.

Author: Should I add another general note to `np.det()`? Or would you like to suggest a better place for it. Your suggestion would be much appreciated.

Reviewer: Here.

Author: So I will open a new PR to add a general note regarding `np.det()` in the "floating point precision" section.

Reviewer: Not regarding `det()` per se. As I said, this is a general issue. People put in contrived test cases to lots of our functions (especially those in `np.linalg`) that have known exact answers and are surprised when the floating point implementation gives them something inexact. You may use it as an example of the general issue, though.
